---
title: Blood In The Mud 3 - The Champion Reigns Again
image:
imageMeta:
  attribution:
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors: 
  - mortimer-rivers
date: Sat Jul 25 2020 13:49:20 GMT-0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
tags:
  - issue-3
---

The third-ever Blood In The Mud, hosted by Dangerous Dan Douglas, took place Friday night in Valentine. 
Featuring a bevy of veteran fighters, this knockdown, dragout tournament proved to be an exciting 
affair! The format consisted of a number of paired fights leading to the creation of a winner's bracket 
as fighters were slowly whittled down to the final two for the championship bout.

Kicking off the event was Jericho Baker squaring off against the so-called Fake Namerson, a curious old 
bearded fellow. The fight started with an opening combo from Mr. Namerson that was returned by a solid 
volley from Jericho, but it ended early when Jericho got turned around and found himself in an 
accidental headlock. Instead of disqualifying him from the tournament, Dangerous Dan decided to 
schedule a grudge match after Jericho recovered from being choked out.

The next fight involved Lana against Ely, with Lana placing a surprising bet on Ely to beat her. The 
two-time champion didn't given Ely much of a chance after the lasso dropped, however, making quick work 
of her opponent. One of the most exciting fights of the first round was Red "The Crimson Fist" against 
Jasper "The Brown Beaver". These two giants of the ring went at it for a long bout, with the fight 
swinging both ways until The Brown Beaver finally landed a cross to take the win.

State Representative candidate Ada Lockwood faced a giant Odd in the next match, taking advantage of 
his height to slip under his defense and deliver a number of crushing blows to his chin until he went 
down in a splash of mud. The final fight of the first round was the grudge match between Jericho and 
Namerson, an intense faceoff that saw Mr. Baker emerge victorious in vengeance for the previous outcome.

The second round began with another victory for Lana over Al, who had been given a bye in the first 
round. Japser "The Brown Beaver" took down Miss Ada Lockwood, learning from her strategies in the first 
round to exploit his height advantage and hold her at bay. Grudge winner Jericho Baker then fell to Lana, 
who had now accumulated three straight wins in the event. This led to a final showdown between Lana and 
the powerhouse The Brown Beaver, who had two wins himself on the day.

With no onlookers placing bets on Jasper, it seemed that Lana was the clear favorite to win. However, 
The Brown Beaver didn't take his underdog status laying down, aiming a kick for her crotch to break up 
the flurry of punches from the reigning champion. She was unfazed, however, jumping right back into the 
mix to defend her title. Both fighters abandoned all pretense at defense, exchanging blow after blow 
until finally Lana stood tall over a vanquished foe.

Despite having lost her first ever organized fight in another tournament the day before, Lana bounced 
back with a flawless performance for her third Blood In The Mud championship title in a row. Will 
anyone ever dethrone the mud queen? Make sure to attend the next event as she goes for a fourth 
straight title!
