---
title: Guarma Invitational Concludes NAHRA Season
image:
imageMeta:
  attribution:
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors: 
  - mortimer-rivers
date: Sun Aug 23 2020 11:07:30 GMT-0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
tags:
  - issue-6
---

The start called out across the plantation fields, and the thunder of hooves rolled through the 
sugarcane. Eight and a half grueling laps later, the champion of champions was finally crowned. 
Saturday night's Guarma Invitational capped off the first season of the New Alexandria Horse 
Racing Association by bringing their best riders together to compete for the grandest prize in 
racing; the opportunity to be declared the best of the best!

The night's lineup featured a who's who of the racing scene, including three-time winner Deputy 
Gabriel Sheperd and NAHRA Vice President Thatcher Ford, twice a winner himself. In fact, other than 
Ryan Hastings, who was invited as the association's most consistent competitor, every rider at the 
Invitational was a former champion, having won a race during the regular season. With such a stalwart 
cast of competitors, there was no doubt in any spectator's mind that this would be a race for the 
ages!

A long race, this track had qualifying times upwards of *FORTY SECONDS*, giving racers plenty of time 
to make moves in each lap. Starting on the downhill through the sugarcane, Thatcher Ford had the poll 
position atop his thundering nokota Blue. Patrick Cox sat on Duke next to him, with Deputy Shepard 
and the stallion Godspeed just behind them on the inside. Michael McGrath and Sabor took the outside 
lane in fourth, with Dr. Jaena Shaw in fifth riding the borrowed Baron Von Beefcake, due to Little 
Brother's season being cut short at the Flat Iron Lake 500. The final two competitors, Kojak Morozov 
(Akurra) and Ryan Hastings (Moxxi) took up the rear to round out the field.

As they raced out of the gate, Mr. Ford took an early lead with Mr. McGrath sweeping around the 
outside to chase him through the zigzag of the first turn. As they came around the houses at the edge 
of the village in the second turn, Mr. Cox was hotly contesting second place with Deputy Sheperd 
battling Mr. Morozov for fourth. Coming around the plantation house, however, Blue had built a 
quarter lap lead, commanding the pace ahead of the pack. Mr. Ford carefully built that lead over the 
next four laps, though the distant battle for second raged fiercely between McGrath, Cox, and 
Sheperd. 

As Thatcher entered the fifth lap, onlookers could see that Blue was tired. He eased up on the pace 
around the back of the plantation house, trying to give his steed a chance to rest. This strategy was 
a calculated risk, as the rest of the pack started to eat away at his large lead. While the 
frontrunners closed in, the back of the pack stretched far behind, with Ryan Hastings riding a few 
lengths ahead of the struggling Baron Von Beefcake as Ford passed them both entering the seventh lap.

By this time, however, his lead was down to five or six lengths, with Patrick Cox having solidly 
taken second and the muscling for third down to Deputy Sheperd and Mr. McGrath. The final lap was 
perhaps the most exciting of the entire race, as Duke surged after Blue coming down the back stretch. 
Entering the zigzag turn, Mr. Ford had seen his lead eaten away to just a few lengths, and he could 
hear Mr. Cox thundering down on him from behind. Cutting through the turn deftly, however, he urged 
his faithful mount to a new burst of speed, desperately widening the gap as he tried to hold on.

As the dust cleared away from the final turn, spectators struggled to make out who had managed to 
come around in first. With sunlight streaking through the cloud to clear the sight, NAHRA President 
Eddie Collins called the race for the season champion, Thatcher Ford! Though the final battle was 
hard-fought, Patrick Cox was unable to close the gap and took second in a very solid performance. 
Michael McGrath emerged victorious in his seesaw struggle with Deputy Sheperd to take third, with the 
latter seizing fourth by a few lengths. Kojak Morozov was quite alone in fifth, and a shocking tumble 
on the blind side of the track threw Ryan Hastings from his saddle in the final lap to give Dr. Jaena 
Shaw sixth place.

Speaking with the season champion about becoming the second rider to reach three wins, Mr. Ford 
claimed that he should have had four in total, having "let" Deputy Sheperd win a previous race at 
Caliga Hall. While he stressed his dedication to fine-tuning starts, finishes, and all other aspects 
of his racing strategy, our winner gave all credit to his incredible horse Blue. Knowing that the 
nokota breed has poor stamina, he focused on pacing himself when Blue seemed out of breath. While his 
gamble nearly backfired, he was able to save some energy for the final turn and emerge victorious.

While Mr. Ford always cuts a striking figure atop a horse, spectators took note of his fancy new 
goggles, debuted for this race. Calling them "Air Georgias", he said the patent-pending prototype 
"showed me the road to victory", giving him better vision of the track as he zeroed in on his path. 
In particular, he noted that the zigzag turn required precision turns to cut the right angles, 
something he felt gave trouble to the other riders. The track overall was built for speed, and Mr. 
Ford named it his second favorite track ever, after Braithwaite.

Speaking with Mr. Ford and Mr. Collins about the future, we learned that the next season would 
feature new tracks and a clean slate to qualify for the invitational. Mr. Ford plans to sit out 
most of the season, having earned a bid in the next Guarma Invitational with his victory on the day. 
With his duties running half of the New Alexandria Horse Racing Association, he prefers to only jump 
into a race once in a while, particularly when they need a deeper field than they have present. He 
looks forward to challenging the best of the best at the next invitational and welcomes all 
competitors to give it their best shot.

Wasting no time, NAHRA is kicking off their next season right away. Join them Wednesday for the 
Thadius LeBlanc Memorial at Braithwaite Manor. A dear friend and competitor, this was his favorite 
track, one where always performed well, even coming away with a win. Stop by at 10 pm EST to pay 
respects to a stalwart of the racing scene, it's sure to be a fantastic event in his memory.

Always the innovators, Saturday will see NAHRA introduce a brand new track at a brand new time. 
They're unveiling the Blackwater track at 4 pm EST, bringing new blood into the racing scene by 
scheduling some earlier events in the new season. This change will surely increase the tough 
competition, bringing the grand racing spectacle to even greater heights in the coming weeks!
